

MY FRAMEWORK:
java
github version control
selenium automation testing with test ng
maven project
pom xml file to store dependencies
singleton design pattern for once instance of driver
surefire plugin paralle testing
pom design pattern for prop file store reusable material in pages class
cucumber bdd framework with junit, also familiar with apache poi
step definitions
feature files
sql experience when it comes to working with databases


 my main coding language is java and i am very confident with selenium as well for test automation.

 - in my company we utilize github as our version control system and i am very confident in it as i have been working with it for quite some time
 - we also use jira to manage our manual test cases


 - in my framework we also in my maven project i store all of my dependencies in my pom xml,
 where i can access things like java-faker and testng if i wish,

 - when it comes to my knowledge of selenium, i have used the singleton design pattern which allows me to operate one instance of
 driver across all my automation tests

 - we also use the pom design pattern, which means i have operated through my properties file to store common data that i can use across all tests

- i use cucumber with junit for some automation testing, and it also allows me to implement BDD approach,
- this is for non technical people on my team so that they can understand with gherkin language, within cucumber,

- i also have a hooks class that i have set up where i can take a screenshot for my report if the tests fails,

 I trigger my framework from my runner class.
- Runner class allows me to run different types of testing suites that I created with my tags, such as smoke, regression, mini-regression.
- I have different types of reports.
But mainly I use "maven-cucumber-reporting" which is a very detailed reporting tool that has pie-charts, matrixes on which tests are passing and failing.

- in my cucumber project we also are able to run parallel testing, which means we can run every feature at the same time regardless of the tags we have

- i use pom design pattern within a class so that all members of our team can access elements easily, it is some reusable data that can also be easily changed.
this class is called my configurations.properties class.

- i am using the singleton pattern to allow me to have one instance of webdriver and i can use it across all my classes,
to implement it i used the OOP concept encapsulation.

- I'm also capable of using certain plugins within my pom.xml file such as the surefire plugin, where i can simultaneously automate tests using different browsers,
in parallel testing as i mentioned before.

- i am also familiar with apache POI, but I have not used it in my company







MY FRAMEWORK:
java is my main programming language, I actually know sql very well too and am confident writing queries
in my company we use github for our version control system and i am very confident in it and have been using it for all my projects
we have our maven project for test automation
selenium automation testing with testng methods for organizing test cases and assign priority to them,
i can also use junit and have a lot of experience with these two tools
Selenium i have used for automating applications through the front end
pom xml file to store dependencies such as testng, hamcrest matchers for assertions in api,
i have also used singleton design pattern within my project for Webdriver ease of access
for my plugins i have surefire plugin for parallel testing which means i can run all my features at the same time
pom design pattern for prop file store reusable material in a pages class
i have experience with cucumber bdd framework,
in my past cucumber experience ive used
step definitions class where i store my gherkin snippets with code
and feature files, where the scenarios and features can be easily understood
also familiar with apache poi modifying office files
For smoke testing im comfortable with jenkins which allows me to run test cases on a set schedule
i have sql experience when it comes to working with databases, as mentioned before i am confident writing queries
i use jdbc to connect my database to my IDE by creating connections through intellij
in api, i am capable of doing manual api testing through postman
im familiar , and automation using rest assured.
within my API knowledge i also use POJO, where i find it is easier for me to organize and automate API material






about myself
first id like to thank you for having me and giving me the opportunity take this interview
my name is david, i actually
graduated with a teaching degree until i started to explore my passion for IT a few years ago
my main coding language is java and also SQL and i am very confident with selenium as well for test automation.
as of now i have been in IT for 2 years where i have been a QA for my company,
I have been testing web based applications in my 2 years.
in my time in my company i have gained a wide understanding of manual and automation testing
i am currently operating through a cucumber BDD framework in my project, (vytrack web application)
we have two testing teams in our project actually. one focuses on API testing and the other on UI testing.
I am a part of the UI team do manual and automation testing in my team
for each 2 sprint cycle we have, i am assigned a user story
and in this project i utilize tools and methodologies such as gherkins language, POM design pattern to store reusable web elements in a pages class
i am very confident on writing queries as well if i am ever needed for database testing.
for our version control we use git and github for collaboration.
for manual test case setup we use jira.
Lastly i have experience creating a framework from scratch using POM design pattern
as far as my daily activities go, in my current team right now i run smoke and regression suites,
smoke testing usually takes about 30 minutes at 8:30 in the morning and i operate it using jenkins
in my team we use selenium and cucumber for test automation
I work in an agile scrum environment where everyone has their separate roles,
we have one additional QA tester in my team





MY PROJECT:
AS MENTIONED BEFORE/// i am currently operating through a cucumber BDD framework in my project, (FLEETREO)
So our web application primarily focuses on being a transportation management tool that companies can use to track the vehicles they have
this is usually done for managing and tracking deliveries
OUR APPLICATION IS CALLED FLEETREO
We have many different modules, such as GPS tracking, employee work logs, Calendar features, Creating contracts, and a communication module that i currently worked on
In the future, i believe that my company will build on modifying and updating the damage and maintenance feature on the application.
we have two testing teams in our project actually. one focuses on API testing and the other on UI testing.
As for some of the meetings or ceremonies my agile team has
On monday-thursday we have our daily stand-up meetings, this is where we go around in a circle and state what we worked
on yesterday, what we're working on today, and potential blockers
We also have demo and retro meetings, and we have grooming and sprint planning meetings before the start of each sprint
I am a part of the UI team do manual and automation testing in my project
I'm responsible for the calendar feature module through UI testing,
my main responsibility is to maintain my teams framework and run smoke and regression suites.
This application also has a db layer with oracle so if my team lead asks me to tests through queries i can do it.

MAYBE????







i am open to learning new things if it is necessary and i consider myself a very good communicator.
in my past profession as a teacher, I think my communication skills critical thinking skills translate nicely to my current career
I've decided to make a step towards a new job because I feel like there are better opportunities out there for me and new challenges.
I consider myself a very friendly and easy going person and team member,
I love to collaborate and work with others in our projects and work hard to deploy what my company envisions.
With whoever i work with in the future, I plan to build strong relationships because i believe it is a crucial part to being a member of a team.
I also consider myself a very hard worker, my main strength my team is that i am open to new challenges and new approaches,
i also like to complete my work as effeciently as possible





HELLO ARE YOU CURRENTLY IN THE MARKET?
yes i am in the job market right now, im seeking a new opportunity as a QA tester!

CAN YOU TELL ME ABOUT YOURSELF AND WHAT HAVE YOU BEEN DOING IN IT
can you tell me about yourself and what do you do in IT
So ive been in IT for just under 2 years, my main coding language is java and i have so far been doing manual and automation UI testing in my teams framework.
and i also know selenium as an automation tool and i have some experience with rest assured for API testing.
My company name is fleetreo, and we work on a fleet management web application that easily company verhicles


WHAT ARE THE TOOLS YOU HAVE EXEPRIENCE WITH AND PROJECT
Java is my main programming language, i also have expeirnece with tools such as selenium webdriver, cucumber, sql database, rest assured for API testing, postman, and my company
is using jira. github as our choice for version control.
inmy project there is an implemented cucumber BDD framework. I'm actually on the UI testing team where we utilize this project.
So our web application primarily focuses on being a transportation management tool that companies can use to track the vehicles they have
this is usually done for managing and tracking deliveries
I'm responsible for the calendar feature module through UI testing,
my main responsibility is to maintain my teams framework and run smoke and regression suites.
The app i work on also has a db layer with oracle so if my team lead asks me to tests through queries i can do it.


WHY ARE YOU LOOKING FOR A NEW OPPORTUNITY
my project is actually ending soon, so i feel like it's a good time to find another company that might be a nice fit for me.
My friend actually moved from one company to another recently in the same field, so he recommended that at my age it's good to explore a
little bit and i definitely felt up for it


CURREENT SALARY REQUIREMENTS
so right now i'm working for 42/hr with all benefits and 401k. So i would like to work for around that or anything above.
2 weeks after i accept before i can fully be in that role

DDT
data driven testing I have actually done in my cucumber framework using a scenario outline,
making a testing with parameters to validate tables,
I have also dont DDT through API testing doing a parameterized test with excel sheets. So I can verify key and value
structures from my intellij by extending an excel document.



SDLC PROCESS AND STLC PROCESS
SDLC has 6 phases
REQUIREMENT PHASE- this is where the SRS document starts being put together, The team analyzes the economic,
law regulatory,
and scheduling aspects of creating the new product. All non functional and functional requirements are thought out
DESIGNING - developers design the ui database and api, and relationships between modules
CODING/DEVELOPING - developers build the software in programming language, front end dev, back end, full stack
usually the longest stage of the cycle
TESTING - anaqlyze requirements and plan how to test, write test case docments and prepare data,
identify bugs and write bug reports, automate test cases, manually test acceptance criteria/userstories.
DEPLOYMENT/PRODUCTION/RELEASE - moved the software tot he production environment
MAINTENANCE - any missed bugs are looked at and new features can be added during this time


STLC
sub lifecycle of the sdlc process. Occurs in testing step

Test Planning − Test Team plans the strategy and approach.
Test Case Designing − Develop the test cases based on scope and criteria's.
Test Environment Setup − When integrated environment is ready to validate the product.
Test Execution − Real-time validation of product and finding bugs.



CI/CD PROCESS

CONTINUOUS INTEGRATION
So for the Cicd process we have a bunch of different tools that work together to make it happen
For continuous integration we are able to utilize git and github for the process. Developers will
provide the build that they crafted and push it to the repository which then goes to devops
devops are able to approve the build and that is when the QA will be able to download the build
and start testing it. Developing the code, building, downloading, and testing.

CONTINUOUS DELIVERY
this process is an enhancement of the continuous integration process, The one additional step
to this is called the release process. Builds are created, testing is done, then release
This process is happening in a big wheel. To automate this process, devops uses jenkins or dockers
In Jenkins the devops team actually provides the tag for the job, and github link (repository URL) for the job, provide
the timeframe that the regression is to be executed, and also. So this is actually the devops responsibility.

This entire process is really effecient because it automates everything that we would otherwise be doing manually
and would just take a super long time.

